feat: Launch V4 Paxos Hub and onboard PT-USDG-24SEP2026 (#1097)
aave-dao/aave-proposals-v3: src/20260514_AaveV4Ethereum_OnboardPTUSDG24SEP2026OnV4PaxosUSDGPendle/OnboardPTUSDG24SEP2026OnV4PaxosUSDGPendle.md

---

> title: "Onboard PT-USDG-24SEP2026 on V4 Paxos Hub / USDG Pendle"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Launch of V4 Paxos Hub and onboard PT-USDG-24SEP2026"
```

Author: [198996a](https://github.com/aave-dao/aave-proposals-v3/pull/1097/commits/198996a5bb9c90fc52033a4771110b39c7fed58b)

Reviewer: this was not applied @avniculae

Author: [21df0bf](https://github.com/aave-dao/aave-proposals-v3/pull/1097/commits/21df0bf41a161ba1f3c8a049049787e747dd4dd3)

author: "Aave Labs"
discussions: "https://governance.aave.com/t/direct-to-aip-onboard-pt-usdg-24sep2026-to-aave-v4-on-ethereum/24942/3"
---

## Simple Summary

> This AIP onboards PT-USDG-24SEP2026 to Aave V4 on Ethereum, listed on a dedicated Paxos Hub with a single USDG Pendle spoke. The spoke carries PT-USDG as its sole collateral, borrowable against USDC, USDT, and USDG within a correlated stablecoin group. USDC and USDT are supplied natively to the Paxos Hub, while USDG is sourced from the Core Hub through a cross-hub credit line.

Reviewer 2: `cross-hub credit line.` => should we say "cross-hub" when it's really a Spoke connected to 2 Hubs ?

Author: this is how LLR expressed this in their post:

> The proposed listing does not introduce USDG as a new asset to V4; it instead authorizes the new Plus / USDG Correlated spoke to draw from Core’s existing USDG inventory through a cross-hub credit line.

I don't mind too much, do you have a strong opinion?

Reviewer 2: Not sure, could be misleading, as here the 2 Hub basically don't interact, so nothing "crosses". But if it's the accepted wording for it, let's keep as is.

> This AIP onboards PT-USDG-24SEP2026 to Aave V4 on Ethereum, listed on a dedicated Paxos Hub with a single USDG Pendle spoke. The spoke carries PT-USDG as its sole collateral, borrowable against USDC, USDT, and USDG within a correlated stablecoin group. USDC and USDT are supplied natively to the Paxos Hub, while USDG is sourced from the Core Hub through a cross-hub credit line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This AIP onboards PT-USDG-24SEP2026 to Aave V4 on Ethereum, listed on a dedicated Paxos Hub with a single Stablecoin Correlated spoke. The spoke carries PT-USDG as its sole collateral, with USDC, USDT, and USDG borrowable. USDC and USDT are supplied natively to the Paxos Hub, while USDG is sourced from the Core Hub through a cross-hub credit line.
```

Author: [198996a](https://github.com/aave-dao/aave-proposals-v3/pull/1097/commits/198996a5bb9c90fc52033a4771110b39c7fed58b)

PT-USDG is priced with the dynamic linear discount rate oracle, which values the PT as a zero-coupon bond against a capped underlying Chainlink reference (the USDG/USD CAPO, a PriceCapAdapterStable bounding the live USDG/USD Chainlink feed at a 1.04 cap), applying a linear discount that decays to par at maturity. The discount rate is bounded above by `maxDiscountRatePerYear`, providing a deterministic price floor against adverse market dislocations.

## Specification

**PT-USDG-24SEP2026**: https://etherscan.io/address/0xc1906aecf868749a2dee203f59b904c0cf212140

**Spoke-level liquidation configuration**

| Spoke             | Target Health Factor | HF for Max Bonus | Liquidation Bonus Factor |
| ----------------- | -------------------: | ---------------: | -----------------------: |

> | USDG Pendle (new) |               1.0277 |             0.99 |                        1 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Stablecoin Correlated (new) |               1.0277 |             0.99 |                        1 |
```

| --------------------- | ----------------: | ---------: | ---------: | -----------------: |
| Source Hub            |             Paxos |      Paxos |      Paxos | Core (credit line) |
| Asset role            |   Collateral only | Borrowable | Borrowable |         Borrowable |
| Suppliable            |               yes |        yes |        yes |                 no |
| Collateral            |               yes |         no |         no |                 no |
| Borrowable            |                no |        yes |        yes |                yes |
| Add Cap               |        15,000,000 | 13,000,000 | 13,000,000 |                  - |
| Draw Cap              |                 - | 13,000,000 | 13,000,000 |         30,000,000 |
| Collateral Factor     |               95% |          - |          - |                  - |
| Max Liquidation Bonus |                2% |          - |          - |                  - |
| Liquidation Fee       |               10% |          - |          - |                  - |
| Collateral Risk score |                0% |          - |          - |                  - |

> **Interest rate configuration (USDC, USDT)**

Reviewer: missing TokenizationSpoke

Author: [198996a](https://github.com/aave-dao/aave-proposals-v3/pull/1097/commits/198996a5bb9c90fc52033a4771110b39c7fed58b)

| Parameter           | Value |
| ------------------- | ----: |
| Base Borrow Rate    |    0% |
| Optimal Utilization |   92% |
| Slope Below Optimal |    4% |
| Slope Above Optimal |   20% |

> | Liquidity Fee       |   10% |

Reviewer: they are diff between USDC and USDT

Author: wdym?
